well Israel has been expanding its
military operation both in Central and
Western Rafa the military says that it
is now in full control of the Border
area with Egypt which is known as the
Philadelphia Corridor the area is 14 km
long and intended to be a demilitarized
buffer zone running along the border
between Gaza and Egypt let's go to hany
Mahmud he joins us now live from deala
in central Gaza hanni so what more can
you tell us about the Israeli Army's
movements in southern
Gaza yes well just judging from the the
patterns of attacks and the movement of
the Israeli military and its occupying
forces on the ground along the eastern
part of the of Rafa City that's near the
the Border as well as the Egyptian rafah
border that's the Philadelphia Corridor
all the way the 13 km from uh the uh
from the eastern part all the way to the
coastal Road that's the area the Israeli
military this is not the first time it
it it it stated it's going to be the
militarized or it's part of the uh
buffer zone it was stated at the initial
weeks of of this genocidal War but what
it does really on the ground it's eating
up more of the area of raah city is
similar to what's going on in the
northern part and along the Eastern Area
so far we're looking at a map that it
shows with the buffer zone that is being
established by the Israeli military is
eating up about
16% of the total area of the Gaza Strip
and right now in Rafa City this area
we're looking at least a 1 kilm depth uh
Northern the Philadelphia Corridor into
Rafa city which means the vast majority
of the residential buildings the public
facilities on on that particular area
including the the schools the honor
facilities and the residential buildings
the mosque all are going to be uh
destroyed
in order for that area to to be
demilitarized what that means it's more
enforced displacement that what people
have been so frustrated about everything
is happening right now with these buffer
zone or demilitarized area feeds into
permanent displacement for people who
will not be able to get back to this uh
to these areas whether in the the
southern part of R City the Philadelphia
Corridor and the area surrounding it or
the eastern part of the G strip all the
way from
to the city of B that's further northern
part and and this is the arrangement
that the Israeli military has been
pushing for all of its sentiment and
narrative has been uh endorsed uh to get
to this point where they have not only
uh the military control but also uh the
uh to empty the area and make it
uninhabitable from its own residence
right honey as you as you've been
describing what is uh the biggest
dilemma for people to escape the
fighting is they're now being forced for
to leave the South and return back to
the north but fighting in the north is
also
continuing yes and this just happened as
the Israeli military in the past hours
early hours of this morning started to
widen its military Maneuvers and
operation in the zun neighborhood that's
at the eastern part of gas densely
populated a neighborhood and it has been
uh invaded several time in fact this
time it's the fourth time and already
the large part of this neighborhood has
been destroyed in terms of the its
public facilities and it's
infrastructure the residential homes
literally people within the past weeks
have been going back to more of a
wasteland similar to the scenario that
happened in Khan unun we're looking at
an area that is has become increasingly
uninhabitable given that all social
services and all means of Life have been
destroyed while this is happening in a
zun neighborhood in eastern Gaza Israel
military announced ITS Tactical
withdrawal from jabali refugee camp all
the way to the edges of the area that's
between tat and the City of B Laha and
the further northern part of the Gaza
Strip and in doing so it continues in
circling all the hospital that has been
under military siege for the past 14
days there are injuries there are
patients there are people who are inside
unable to leave to safer area unable to
get whatever necessities of of term of
of supplies water food or medical
supplies to that hospital so this is not
a full withdrawal it's tactical by the
Israeli military it means they can get
back to the refugee camp at any time
given that what it created on the ground
the new routes and the New Roads
established by the Israeli military
gives it an upper hand in
maneuvering into the uh Refugee despite
all of this we still have these
confirmed reports of ongoing clashes the
ongoing confrontation between
Palestinian and fting groups on the
ground whether in the northern part in
jabalia and the northern part of the
strip or Rafa City okay thank you for
that update honey Mahmud there for
andala in central
Gaza joining us now on set is Tamar
kamut associate professor public policy
at The doart Institute for Graduate
Studies good to join uh speak to you
again Tamir I want to get a sense uh
from you as to where we are to you think
in terms of the war because we now have
the Israeli military seizing control of
this Philadelphia Corridor which is this
entire length of uh the Gaza border with
Egypt and despite everything that we've
been hearing from the International
Community in recent days they seem to
have deepened their ground Invasion into
Rafa um Maline correct I think the
taking over the Philadelphia Corridor um
signals for a beginning of a new stage
and I think this is also related to the
statements we're hearing from the
Israeli government officials that this
war will will will take month or maybe
years to come um the Philadelphia
Corridor was a a red line by the
Egyptian government because it it it the
Egyptians were very concerned and they
were threatening that this would change
the arrangements over the C David uh
peace agreement they had with Israel and
so it was more or less like a red line
that Israel has already crossed again so
Israel has been Crossing all the red
lines set by the US the International
Community even by its neighbor Egypt now
and I think the Israelis are more or
less they have upper upper hand in this
in this War I mean I don't see any
sincere um willingness by the us to stop
the Israelis the Israelis or change the
discourse of their behavior or action
and my fear and my concern this this
signals a new stage of probably a long
presence of Israeli troops in Gaza
reoccupation of the Gaza Strip cutting
it into canons having full control over
all the border crossings including Egypt
isol in Gaza something similar to the
West Bank you know maybe at later stage
they will reintroduce the ABC areas you
know and it's it's I think that they're
there at this stage meanwhile the
suffering for the people of Gaza
continues another warning today from the
UN about Aid deliveries into Gaza have
dropped by 2/3 since Israel's move into
Rafa and we heard from hany there people
just going back and forth between the
North and the South trying to escape the
fighting but the fighting is now
everywhere correct and and also you hear
from the Israeli officials again
statements they don't hide it I
mean that they want to more or less to
Corner most of gaza's population in this
narrow strip of Al mawasi and kanun and
there will be no return for gazans to
the north unless Hamas releases the
Israeli captives and so they're crushing
the people like you know it's it's
torture for the people and I think it's
it's a brutality at its best you know
and uh and and sadly yes the Israelis
are more or less having an upper hand I
mean I mean there's no one who's really
able to stopping them what what the
Americans are really caring about now is
for Israel to have a clear plan for the
day after as if again they're implicitly
approving the reoccupation of Gaza they
don't don't have a problem with Israel
having control in Gaza but they want to
know how Israel is going to govern Gaza
and with whom and again that's another
Scandal Palestina Z deserv this again to
remind your viewers it's the Israeli
occupation occupation is the root causes
of all these problems we don't need
another another reoccupation of the Gaza
Strip if the Israelis get rid of Hamas
Palestinians will keep resisting whether
it's Hamas or someone else and sadly
that the US is not there uh yes there
are good news coming from many countries
we see this wave of recognition that's
very good and that's a step in the right
direction but we're still far away from
reaching a fair settlement for this
conflict okay good to speak to you Tamar
kamur Professor public policy at Doan
Institute for Graduate
Studies make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from aler